(theme music)
SHINPEI: The date changed.
Now, it's the 23rd.
(thuds)
(shower squeaks)
Hey, look, I found a bottle of shampoo.
-HIZURU: Oh. Thanks a lot.
-(Ushioh chuckles)
-So, uh...
-HIZURU: Hm?
USHIOH: Shinpei and I actually saw
the memory of you and Heine.
You know, the one from 14 years ago.
Right, I heard about that.
USHIOH: Back then, you were super flat!
Mind if I touch them?
I wanna know what they're like.
HIZURU: Okay, go ahead.
USHIOH: Oh, wow, uh...
Your shoulders must hurt a lot.
-HIZURU: They do.
-USHIOH: Uh...
I'm wondering,
how exactly did Heine end up like that?
She was really just a normal kid at first,
back when she was playing with you.
I shouldn't have let my curiosity win out.
It got the better of me,
it was a stupid move.
Right, you know, I think
I was born from a part of Heine.
USHIOH: A piece of her flew off
and fell on the ground
when Ryunosuke died,
and I think that was me.
I'm afraid that I...
I might turn out like her someday.
I can't bear the thought of it.
HIZURU: Not to worry, Ushioh.
I'll be sure to kill you
if that ever happens.
-MIOH: Mio.
-(gasps)
MIO: What the... Oh, it's me.
-What is it?
-(Mioh sighs)
MIOH: You're so cold to me.
But I guess that makes sense.
I guess I've always hated myself.
(gasps)
What... What are you...
Tiny little nose, short, stubby fingers,
way too much hair, too damp and sweaty.
Cut it out.
MIOH: You hate all of it.
'Cause you're the complete opposite
of... of Ushio, right?
(Mio gasps)
It's not just how you look,
it's the grades... it's personality.
I said cut it out!
(grunts)
You're just always
in her shadow, aren't you?
(gasps)
How long are you gonna take this?
At some point, you have
to tell Shin-chan how you feel.
MIOH: If you don't want to,
I'll do it for you.
What, no! You can't just do that.
DR. HISHIGATA:
These are your mother's ashes.
I would never, ever feed
the woman I loved to Heine.
She passed away on January 3rd, 2013.
She died from cardiac failure.
So I guess you lied about the donor,
didn't you?
SOU: She was already dead
on the day of her surgery.
I...
wish I knew.
You really should've told me.
DR. HISHIGATA:
The Hishigata family has been involved
with shadows for three centuries.
I knew I had to pass it down
to the next generation,
but I only needed one successor.
My father didn't tell any of my brothers,
he decided he'd only tell me.
I thought it'd be too much
for you to bear.
(Sou grunts)
DR. HISHIGATA: Sou. You believe
that human life is precious, don't you?
Of course, I do! Why're you asking me?
That's why I couldn't tell you, Sou.
DR. HISHIGATA: I'm very sorry.
If you wanna say sorry, say it to Tokiko.
Somehow, I can't blame him.
I get why Dr. Hishigata did what he did.
He was doing everything he could
to save someone he loved.
Honestly, if I were him,
I might have done the exact same thing.
Yeah, but he orchestrated the mass murder
at the revival ceremony,
that was his choice.
He turned all his human sacrifices
into shadows,
and erased the memories of their deaths.
He thought no one would ever know.
The more I hear, it seems like your dad
was always thinking a few steps ahead.
Yes.
They might be shadows,
but Ushioh is Ushio,
Chitose is Chitose, that's the thing.
It's hard to treat them differently.
(chuckles)
You're just too good.
SHINPEI: Uh...
TOKIKO: Hey, Shinpei.
When was the last time you got some rest?
Huh?
TOKIKO: You haven't slept once,
during any of your loops so far.
-You have bags under your eyes.
-Oh...
I guess I have been awake
this whole time, haven't I?
TOKIKO: Exactly.
Don't wear yourself out, okay?
SHINPEI: Mm-hm.
Look, we're all with you here,
so you should get some rest tonight.
SHINPEI: She has a good point.
It might be my only chance
to get some sleep.
SHINPEI: Thank you.
(snoring)
-USHIOH: Where're you going?
-NEZU: Uh?
Oh, it's just you, Ushioh.
You really shouldn't go out on your own.
Do you need to use
the bathroom or something?
I've decided I'm going home.
USHIOH: Going home alone?
You crazy? What are you thinking--
(shushes)
You're being too loud!
USHIOH: Did you forget something?
Hmm... Something like that.
Can I go now or what?
Um...
Why don't you let me come with you,
if you really need to go?
-Hmm...
-(chuckles)
Fine, come on, then. Let's get going.
Just wait outside.
I'll be right back, okay?
Why didn't you wait outside
like I told you!?
Mm...
Well, I... I felt a shadow in here.
Don't worry.
This one's not going anywhere.
NEZU: I'm home.
Oh, Gi...
Uh... Who is this person?
It's a shadow. She was my wife.
(gasps)
NEZU: One day a few months back,
she went out and paid a visit to our farm,
And then she came back a shadow.
The moment I saw that flash of light,
it reminded me of that day.
(Nezu grunts)
I'll never forget it,
it was the day Ryunosuke was killed,
14 years ago.
Her shadow tried to copy me that day,
but thankfully, I was immune.
-(Shadow Kaoru screaming)
-Hm? What's wrong?
NEZU: This isn't normal.
It's never done this.
She probably just received
the same telepathic order
from Heine that made Chitose go mad.
Hm... Think so?
-(gun clicks)
-(grunts)
USHIOH: Nezu, hold on!
I'm sorry, Ushioh, but this is between us.
Wait a minute! I can hack into her,
and she'll be herself again!
NEZU: Even if you did that,
it would still be a shadow,
and it won't be like you
or Mrs. Hishigata.
Listen. It murdered my wife
and took her form.
That makes it my wife's enemy.
But you...
I couldn't bring myself
to kill it until now.
I swore I would kill any shadow I could.
Then, out of weakness,
I let my greatest enemy live.
But that's over now,
I don't need any more time.
Just let me end this,
so I can finally have some closure.
(Ushioh sobs)
All right?
(somber music)
NEZU: I'm so sorry about this, Kaoru.
I'll be with you soon.
(gunshot)
SHIDE: Impressive, Nurse Negoro.
You're quite handy with a bandage.
SHINPEI: The long night finally ended.
It's morning.
Hey, how are you feeling?
You were asleep for a long time.
SHINPEI: This is good, the edge of time
is a bit farther off now.
I've got a little leeway now
for the number of loops I have left.
But my eyes are still hurting,
and my headache is worse.
Is everyone safe?
Oh, right.
Oh.
Morning.
Uh... Good morning.
SHINPEI: We all made it to the morning
of the 23rd alive.
(birds chirping)
Today, on the 23rd, we're gonna hunt.
Before the final battle, we need to try
to weaken the shadows' forces.
To start, we'll go after the shadows
Ms. Nagumo saw at the funeral.
Team Nagumo takes the Kogaitos,
and at the same time,
team Ushioh takes out the Hitobuchis.
Our team started by returning
to Bistro Kofune.
Alain was prepping for lunch.
We thought he'd be mad at us
for showing up,
but he was kind
and he just welcomed us home.
Rose and Gil stood watch at Kofune
all night long, so we sent them to Tokiko.
Mio, you'll help Alain.
Shadow Mioh will keep watch.
Sou, you'll hang back here as well.
Well, guys, looks like Shin-chan
and our sis here will be all alone today.
Huh? Oh, yeah.
Sounds nice, huh, Mio?
Huh? Uh...
MIO: It'll be fine. We have Sou with us.
-Right?
-Yeah, Of course.
MIO: Okay, you two, listen up.
Just be safe.
-Here, take this.
-Hm?
These are real strands
of hair, from Ushio.
-USHIOH: Uh, what're they for?
-Oh, I get it!
Well, I found hair
on the floor of some of the rooms.
It should have Ushio's data in it, right?
I only found a few strands,
but I think you should be able
to use them to recover.
USHIOH: Mio, you're a genius!
My hair's been restored!
All right, let's get started.
USHIOH: Yeah.
You take good care of Mio, Sou.
Leave it to me. Don't die out there.
Shin-chan.
There's something I have to tell you.
So that means you have to come back.
SHINPEI: Understood.
Call me if anything happens.
MIO: Uh-huh.
I don't sense any shadows.
They're not here anymore.
Looks like Ms. Nagumo's conclusion
was accurate,
the Hitobuchi family got wiped out.
SHINPEI: She saw the shadow
of Kanae Hitobuchi,
a school teacher.
She had a nickname.
They called her "Bucchi."
She taught pretty much every kid
on the island,
including Ushio, Ms. Nagumo, and myself.
(cicadas screeching)
There she is. Hey, look at that!
BOY 1: How did her hair get that blonde?
BOY 2: And she's got those blue eyes, too.
-BOY 1: It's so weird!
-BOY 2: It's 'cause she's a foreigner!
BOYS: Foreigner!
-Foreigner!
-Hey!
BOYS: Huh?
-Take that!
-(boys groaning)
(boys whimpering)
Ushio.
Get back here!
Hey, stop! What do you kids
think you're doing over there?
SHINPEI: Bucchi.
(grumbles)
It's not my fault.
I didn't do anything wrong.
HITOBUCHI: No, of course not.
You didn't do anything wrong.
You were just upset.
I'm not upset.
USHIO: Those two always pick
on the weak kids, 'cause they're weak.
But I'm not a weak kid, you know?
I just taught them
that they can't mess with me.
Well, yes, you certainly are strong.
Huh?
But violence is unacceptable.
Truly strong people don't need
to hurt others to feel powerful.
That doesn't make sense, I don't... Mm!
These little hands of yours
were not made to hurt people, Ushio.
HITOBUCHI: You should use them
to embrace people,
you should use them
to hold hands with people.
You want me to hold hands with them?
That's so gross! Ew!
HITOBUCHI: And, Shinpei...
Uh, yes?
Keep your eyes on Ushio for me, okay?
Try to keep her out of trouble.
I'm counting on you.
Okay.
Next time, before you decide
to make a fist, think about what I said.
Well, I can't promise that.
I can't not fight back.
All right.
Huh?
You're always honest with me, Ushio.
That's what I love about you.
Bucchi.
USHIOH: She was so kind to me.
SHINPEI: I know.
But she was scary when she got mad.
Yeah.
USHIOH: We're the only ones
who can avenge her death.
(cicadas chirping)
SHINPEI We followed the presence
of shadows
into the forest on Mt. Takanosu.
You feel anything, Ushioh?
Yeah, I feel them more here.
Be careful.
Chances are they sense me, too.
Yeah, I got it.
Shinpei, are you nervous right now?
Of course I am.
It's just the two of us against them.
Well, you don't need to be,
I got your back.
All you gotta do is sit back and relax.
(people screaming)
Shinpei, get on!
Ugh, go... go away!
Well, well, just look at you Hamaji,
full of energy and spirit as always.
You'll be a very tasty meal.
(grunts)
Huh? Ushio?
Wait! I missed one!
Shinpei! Behind the kids!
BOTH: Huh?
(gunshot)
(coughs)
Oh, my gosh, Shinpei. You got so big.
Are you doing well?
I am, Mrs. Hitobuchi.
Mm...
So you're telling me good shadows
have started fighting bad ones,
-and you're good?
-Right, Todai! You nailed it.
Don't worry.
We'll beat up all the bad shadows.
We won't let them hurt you.
Right, Shinpei?
Yep, exactly right!
USHIOH: Why are you still up there?
That's because I can't get down!
You're the one
who put me up here! Remember?
Shinpei really gets led around
by the nose.
AKARI: Yeah! It's like they're married!
BOTH: It's not like that!
Listen, this mission is top secret, guys,
so you can't tell any grown-ups, okay?
Hm...
Okay. Roger that!
HAMAJI: This is so cool!
USHIOH: I just didn't have the heart
to tell those little kids,
that the real Bucchi was killed.
It's for the best.
There's no need to scare them.
USHIOH: You think they'll keep quiet
about the shadows?
No one would believe them, anyway.
(gasps)
USHIOH: Look, there's blood.
It's still fresh.
I wonder if Bucchi did this.
(flash squealing)
It's a 34-year-old woman.
She's not from the island.
USHIOH: She lived in Osaka.
She was a tourist.
SHINPEI: There's no stain
in the shape of a person.
That tourist was taken away from here.
Damn it, Heine's eating more
to heal her wounds,
the ones she got yesterday.
(in demonic voice)
She's a fool.
Eating more strangers
won't heal her at all.
Shiori Kobayakawa and Heine,
their originals are gone,
they don't exist anymore.
Ushioh?
(in normal voice)
Huh, did I just say something?
-Wait a sec.
-(cell phone buzzing)
SHINPEI: It's Ms. Nagumo.
Let's meet up with everyone
like we planned earlier.
SHINPEI: I'll send the kids
to Bistro Kofune. They'll be safe there.
Both teams met up
and filled each other in.
Basically, we only defeated
three shadows total.
Mrs. Hitobuchi and two kids.
The Kogaito home had human stains,
but there were no shadows to be found.
Then we went with Totsumura later
to do some digging on the shadows
we fought in the gym.
All of their homes were empty,
but all the families told their neighbors
that they were going to leave,
and then they vanished.
The thing is,
the Kobayakawas said that Shiori
would be recovering at a relative's house,
as in, she'd be living there temporarily.
So naturally, I called the relatives,
and there was no truth to it at all.
In the first loop, your shadow told me
that they were running away
from their debt.
From their debt?
You think they're trying to cover
themselves to avoid being found out?
In case we erase all of them?
It looks like they want
the summer festival to go
as they planned earlier.
It just doesn't seem
like they're going to attack us.
Do you think they're afraid that Ushioh
will be able to hack them.
Tell you one thing,
they won't show their backs to us anymore.
So we know they want
the summer festival to go forward.
Do you guys think
we can cancel it somehow?
Hm...
If we're going to do that,
we'll need to pay a visit to that man.
SHINPEI: Looking back, I was trying
to meet him from the very beginning.
The first place I died.
In my very first loop.
The Hiruko Shrine.
It's where everything began.
(cicadas chirping)
Hello there.
Oh, hi. Good afternoon.
I'd like to discuss
something with you, Mr. Karikiri.
Do you have some time?
Sure. Of course, I do.
Why don't we go inside and talk?
Come with me.
(closing theme music)